Minds a mind is an industry of ideas it
is a meme machine a knowledge Creator a
guest generator and more besides a mind
is a tangled not of problems and also
the untangling mechanism itself our mind
is messy because creativity must be
messy we cannot logically derive our way
to new Solutions and knowledge we
conjecture refute backtrack read tread
and try again a mind is the stage where
ideas arise in Consciousness and
backstage where the hustle and bustle of
preparations proceed known about but
witnessed only rarely fleetingly in the
shadows but we know it's there the mind
is you that you are your mind that a
person is their mind should not be
controversial but is a mind is not a
brain it is not neurons or
neurotransmitters nor charges moving
along ion channels regulated by ligands
it is not firing of action potentials in
synapses nor whole brain regions or
anything in between for a mind is not
physical but abstract and is a very
special kind of abstraction we only
barely understand as a matter of third
person explanatory science a mind is not
a brain in the same way Microsoft
Windows is not silicon chips a mind is
an abstraction and it is substrate
independent as a matter of so-called
first-person introspective science where
people make claims about the mind for
others to test by their own repetition
of some practice competing claims are
made one school uses terminology in one
way and one another with often competing
claims being settled by an appeal to
Authority or empiricism one is supposed
to derive Knowledge from their
experience of sitting sometimes
authoritarian essentialism appears in
the form of what to use the pronoun I to
refer to that it can only refer to the
quote conscious witness of experience
end quote and never The Experience
itself that the self cannot at least
also include the thinker of thoughts
because quote thought merely arise in
Consciousness what else could they do
end quote here is one answer to that
question they arise in the subconscious
and only appear to arise in
Consciousness and the subconscious is
still a part of You by a means we do not
yet understand and appearances can be
deceiving I do not claim to know what
the pronoun I refers to in any final
essential sense there are just some
Clues here I am my mind I am that thing
that generates ideas even if the
explanation of that creative act is
largely hidden from me by a simple lack
of knowledge the mind is a very
mysterious thing why should I expect to
have any great in insight into it by
observing it than I do if I stand
outside in the dark of a night and
observe the sky over and again night
after night all I am dimly aware of are
pin Pricks of light in the sky gradually
changing and coming and going and that
observation tells me with my unaided
eyes almost nothing about what those
things really are much less what caused
them so too with the mind I observe my
thoughts and can recognize I am not
identical to my thoughts I just have one
now and again I am not any individual
idea nor my set of ideas but I have them
and they do shape my personality is my
personality me it is certainly a feature
of me but it is not more me than my body
is is it in both cases I can change it I
can feel more or less myself and know
what that means to me without knowing
exactly what myself is precisely I just
feel myself or not my behavior I hope is
in character and not out of character
and I have a character I have one but I
am not identical to my character either
it too is like the body I possess where
I to lose or gain a great deal of weight
lose a finger or let my hair grow long
and then diet again I would remain me
though my appearance becomes different
for I am an abstraction as a mind not my
physical outward appearance nor some set
of physical behaviors though I am
characterized by them it is the
projection of me onto the world but it
is not me just hints and clues as is the
body of knowledge I have guessed and
checked to some greater or lesser degree
and it is the set of things I know
evolving through learning and forgetting
what a mind is is not easy to pin down
it is that thing both conscious and
unconscious where thoughts are created
for it is that engine of creation
providing the stage where the ideas are
brought into awareness and a person is a
mind and a person has various things
they have a personality and they have
problems and they have preferences and
they have ideas and all of this together
makes up something like a personal
identity people are characterized by in
large part their problem situation the
set of problems they have which evolve
at times only slowly and at other times
rapidly when perhaps excitement or
tragedy strike but amidst the roiling
not of contradictions problems outright
paradoxes and ideas a person contains is
also the thing that separates them from
all other non-persons like animals the
thing that makes those very ideas
possible that provides the possibility
of having problems whose Solutions
require explanations and that thing is
the capacity to generate ideas in the
first place it remains a mystery but we
all share it it is what helps us all
navigate the infinite ocean of ignorance
that we find ourselves all equally
floating upon some of us have a little
more knowledge of this or that but we
are all equal in that ignorant
circumstance we are Minds merely
guessing at reality and though we may
say we've changed our mind we really
mean to say we've changed the contents
of our mind for we've had a new idea
generated by the mind and which is now a
better explanation by our lights a
solution that solves some problem better
we've changed our Outlook perhaps but we
remain a part of us ever in flux as we
encounter problems and conjecture their
Solutions and a part of us that remains
constant that very thing responsible for
the generation of ideas some of which
survive to become genuine memes making
the Mind deserving of that Meme machine
moniker in Parts conscious and
unconscious the mind is the mystery of
of genuine general intelligence it is
the universal explainer that makes a
person a person that makes a mind a mind